DD2424 Deep Learning in Data Science 7.5 credits
Before course selection

Administer About course


Valid for

Semester

Choose semester
Choose semester and course offering
Choose semester and course offering to see information from the correct course syllabus and course offering.

Course syllabus as PDF
Please note: all information from the Course syllabus is available on this page in an accessible format.

Course syllabus DD2424 (Spring 2022–)
Headings with content from the Course syllabus DD2424 (Spring 2022–) are denoted with an asterisk (  )
Content and learning outcomes
Course contents
Learning of representations from raw data: images and text
Principles of supervised learning
Elements for different methods for deep learning: convolutional networks and recurrent networks
Theoretical knowledge of and practical experience of training networks for deep learning including optimisation using stochastic gradient descent
New progress in methods for deep learning
Analysis of models and representations
Transferred learning with representations for deep learning
Application examples of deep learning for learning of representations and recognition
Intended learning outcomes
After the course, one will be able to:

explain the basic the ideas behind learning, representation and recognition of raw data
account for the theoretical background for the methods for deep learning that are most common in practical contexts
identify the practical applications in different fields of data science where methods for deep learning can be efficient (with special focus on computer vision and language technology)
in order to:

be able to solve problems connected to data representations and recognition
be able to implement, analyse and evaluate simple systems for deep learning for automatic analysis of image and text data
receive a broad knowledge enabling you to learn more about the area and read literature in the area
Course disposition
No information inserted
Literature and preparations
Specific prerequisites
Knowledge and skills in programming, 6 credits, equivalent to completed course DD1337/DD1310-DD1318/DD1321/DD1331/DD100N/ID1018.

Knowledge in algorithms and data structures, at least 6 higher education credits, equivalent to completed course DD1338/DD1320/DD1325/DD1327/DD1338/DD2325/ID1020/ID1021.

Knowledge in probability theory and statistics, 6 higher education credits, equivalent to completed course SF1910-SF1924/SF1935.

Knowledge in algebra and geometry, 7.5 higher education credits, equivalent to completed course SF1624.

Knowledge in multivariable analysis, 7.5 higher education credits, equivalent to completed course SF1626.

Knowledge in machine learning or artificial intelligence, 6 higher education credits, equivalent to completed course DD1420/DD2421 or DD2380/ID1214.

Active participation in a course offering where the final examination is not yet reported in LADOK is considered equivalent to completion of the course.

Registering for a course is counted as active participation.

The term 'final examination' encompasses both the regular examination and the first re-examination.

Recommended prerequisites
No information inserted
Equipment
No information inserted
Literature
No information inserted
Examination and completion
If the course is discontinued, students may request to be examined during the following two academic years.

Grading scale
A, B, C, D, E, FX, F
Examination
LAB2 - Laboratory work, 4.5 credits, grading scale: P, F
TEN1 - Examination, 3.0 credits, grading scale: A, B, C, D, E, FX, F
Based on recommendation from KTH’s coordinator for disabilities, the examiner will decide how to adapt an examination for students with documented disability.

The examiner may apply another examination format when re-examining individual students.

The moment TEN1 is includes both oral and written examination.

By making an optional project assignment the students can improve their final grade.

Opportunity to complete the requirements via supplementary examination
No information inserted
Opportunity to raise an approved grade via renewed examination
No information inserted
Examiner
Profile picture Josephine Sullivan

Ethical approach
All members of a group are responsible for the group's work.
In any assessment, every student shall honestly disclose any help received and sources used.
In an oral assessment, every student shall be able to present and answer questions about the entire assignment and solution.
Further information
Course web
Further information about the course can be found on the Course web at the link below. Information on the Course web will later be moved to this site.

Course web DD2424
Offered by
EECS/Intelligent Systems
Main field of study
Computer Science and Engineering
Education cycle
Second cycle
Add-on studies
No information inserted
Contact
Josephine Sullivan (sullivan@kth.se)
Transitional regulations
The previous module LAB1 is replaced by LAB2.

Supplementary information
In this course, the EECS code of honor applies, see:
http://www.kth.se/en/eecs/utbildning/hederskodex