DD2477 Search Engines and Information Retrieval Systems 7.5 credits
Before course selection

Administer About course


The course discusses methods for indexing, ranking and searching in large document collections, as well as methods for evaluating different search models.

Valid for

Semester

Choose semester
Choose semester and course offering
Choose semester and course offering to see information from the correct course syllabus and course offering.

Course syllabus as PDF
Please note: all information from the Course syllabus is available on this page in an accessible format.

Course syllabus DD2477 (Spring 2022–)
Headings with content from the Course syllabus DD2477 (Spring 2022–) are denoted with an asterisk (  )
Content and learning outcomes
Course contents
Basic and advanced technologies for information retrieval, indexing and ranking; indexing of non-textual data; boolean models and vector space models for search; evaluation and user interface issues; the structure of Internet search engines.

Intended learning outcomes
After passing the course, the student shall be able to

explain and use concepts in information retrieval such as indexing, ranking, boolean search model, vector space model
implement methods for indexing, search, and ranking of a very large number of documents with hyperlinks
use tools and software libraries for information retrieval
be able to evaluate algorithms and systems for information retrieval
in order to be able to

work for companies that specialise in information retrieval
carry out a master's degree project in computer science with a specialisation in information retrieval
be an important link between systems designers, programmers, and interaction designers in industry as well as in research projects.
Course disposition
No information inserted
Literature and preparations
Specific prerequisites
Completed courses in

basic computer science, equivalent to one of the courses DD1338/DD1320/DD1321/DD1325/DD1327/ID1020/ID1021
linear algebra, equivalent to one of the courses SF1624/SF1684/SF1672.
Active participation in a course offering where the final examination is not yet reported in LADOK is considered equivalent to completion of the course.

Registering for a course is counted as active participation. The term 'final examination' encompasses both the regular examination and the first re-examination.

Recommended prerequisites
No information inserted
Equipment
No information inserted
Literature
No information inserted
Examination and completion
If the course is discontinued, students may request to be examined during the following two academic years.

Grading scale
A, B, C, D, E, FX, F
Examination
LAB1 - Computer assignments, 4.5 credits, grading scale: A, B, C, D, E, FX, F
PRO1 - Project assignment, 3.0 credits, grading scale: A, B, C, D, E, FX, F
Based on recommendation from KTH’s coordinator for disabilities, the examiner will decide how to adapt an examination for students with documented disability.

The examiner may apply another examination format when re-examining individual students.

Opportunity to complete the requirements via supplementary examination
No information inserted
Opportunity to raise an approved grade via renewed examination
No information inserted
Examiner
Profile picture Johan Boye

Ethical approach
All members of a group are responsible for the group's work.
In any assessment, every student shall honestly disclose any help received and sources used.
In an oral assessment, every student shall be able to present and answer questions about the entire assignment and solution.
Further information
Course web
Further information about the course can be found on the Course web at the link below. Information on the Course web will later be moved to this site.

Course web DD2477
Offered by
EECS/Intelligent Systems
Main field of study
Computer Science and Engineering
Education cycle
Second cycle
Add-on studies
DD2417 Language Engineering.

Contact
Johan Boye (jboye@kth.se)
Supplementary information
In this course, the EECS code of honor applies, see:
http://www.kth.se/en/eecs/utbildning/hederskodex

DD2477 is replacing and overlapping DD2476 and therefore cannot be combined with that course.